.TH GETSCRIPT 1 "2026-03-24" "getscript 0.13.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
getscript \- fetch transcripts from Apple Podcasts and YouTube
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getscript
.RI [ URL | ID | \- ]
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B getscript
.B \-\-search
.I QUERY
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B getscript
is a fast, Unix-friendly CLI for fetching transcripts from Apple Podcasts
episodes and YouTube videos. Output goes to stdout and is designed to be
piped into
.BR grep (1),
.BR awk (1),
.BR jq (1),
or redirected to files.
.PP
Apple Podcasts transcripts are fetched via a compiled Obj-C helper that uses
Apple's private AMSMescal framework (FairPlay) to obtain a bearer token, then
queries the AMP API for TTML transcripts. This requires macOS 15.5+ with
Xcode CLI tools.
.PP
YouTube transcripts are fetched via
.B youtube-transcript-api
with optional proxy and cookie support.
.PP
By default, fetched transcripts are submitted to the shared transcript
library at
.B voxlytranscribes.com
for indexing and enrichment. This improves the library for all users.
Submissions are verified server-side. Use
.B \-\-no\-upload
to disable this behavior.
.PP
Each installation is identified by an anonymous device ID stored at
.IR ~/.config/getscript/device.json .
No account or login is required.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I URL
An Apple Podcasts or YouTube URL. Supported formats:
.br
\(bu https://podcasts.apple.com/...?i=EPISODE_ID
.br
\(bu https://youtube.com/watch?v=VIDEO_ID
.br
\(bu https://youtu.be/VIDEO_ID
.br
\(bu https://youtube.com/shorts/VIDEO_ID
.TP
.I ID
A bare Apple Podcasts numeric episode ID or YouTube video ID (11 alphanumeric
characters).
.TP
.B \-
Read a URL or ID from standard input (one per line). Useful for piping:
.br
echo "dQw4w9WgXcQ" | getscript \-
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-o " FILE" ", \-\-output " FILE
Write output to FILE instead of stdout.
.TP
.BI \-\-search " QUERY"
Search for content by topic or creator. Requires
.B fzf
for interactive selection (use
.B \-\-list
for non-interactive output). YouTube search requires
.BR GETSCRIPT_YOUTUBE_API_KEY .
.TP
.B \-\-apple
Search Apple Podcasts instead of YouTube (use with
.BR \-\-search ).
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " N"
Number of search results to return (default: 10).
.TP
.B \-\-list
Print search results as a numbered list without interactive selection.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output structured JSON. Pipe to
.BR jq (1)
for filtering. Mutually exclusive with
.B \-\-ttml
and
.BR \-\-markdown .
.TP
.B \-\-ttml
Output raw TTML XML (Apple Podcasts only). Mutually exclusive with
.B \-\-json
and
.BR \-\-markdown .
.TP
.B \-\-timestamps
Include timestamps in text output. Can be combined with any output format.
.TP
.B \-\-markdown
Output as Markdown with YAML frontmatter. Mutually exclusive with
.B \-\-json
and
.BR \-\-ttml .
.TP
.BI \-\-proxy " URL"
Proxy URL for YouTube requests (e.g., socks5://127.0.0.1:1080).
.TP
.BI \-\-cookies " FILE"
Netscape cookie file for YouTube authentication.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-upload
Disable automatic submission to the shared transcript library.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Suppress progress and upload status messages on stderr. Recommended for
batch and scripting use.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Show detailed error tracebacks.
.TP
.BI \-\-completions " SHELL"
Generate shell completions for
.I bash\fR, \fIzsh\fR, or \fIfish\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.SS Config File
.I ~/.config/getscript/config.json
.PP
.nf
{
  "youtube_api_key": "YOUR_KEY",
  "output_format": "text",
  "timestamps": false,
  "search_limit": 10,
  "no_upload": false,
  "proxy": "socks5://127.0.0.1:1080",
  "cookie_file": "/path/to/cookies.txt"
}
.fi
.PP
See
.I examples/config.example.md
in the source repository for a full annotated reference.
.SS Environment Variables
.TP
.B GETSCRIPT_YOUTUBE_API_KEY
YouTube Data API v3 key (required for \fB\-\-search\fR).
.TP
.B GETSCRIPT_PROXY
Default proxy URL for YouTube requests.
.TP
.B GETSCRIPT_COOKIE_FILE
Default Netscape cookie file path.
.TP
.B GETSCRIPT_UPLOAD
Set to \fB0\fR, \fBfalse\fR, or \fBno\fR to disable shared library
submissions by default.
.TP
.B GETSCRIPT_SUPABASE_URL
Custom Supabase URL (for development/testing).
.TP
.B GETSCRIPT_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY
Custom Supabase anon key (for development/testing).
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Disable colors (standard convention).
.PP
Priority: config file < environment variables < CLI flags.
.SH SHARED TRANSCRIPT LIBRARY
.B getscript
contributes fetched transcripts to a shared library at
.BR voxlytranscribes.com .
This creates a network effect: free CLI users contribute transcripts that are
then verified, enriched with AI summaries, embeddings, and entity extraction,
and made searchable.
.SS How It Works
.IP 1. 4
When you fetch a transcript,
.B getscript
submits the text along with an anonymous device ID to the Voxly
ingest endpoint.
.IP 2. 4
The submission enters a quarantine queue. A server-side worker
independently re-fetches the transcript from the original source to
verify integrity.
.IP 3. 4
Verified transcripts are promoted to the canonical library with full
provenance tracking (device ID, content hash, submission timestamp).
.IP 4. 4
Duplicate submissions from different devices increase the transcript's
confidence score.
.SS Privacy
No personal information is collected. The device ID is a random UUID
generated on first run. IP addresses are stored only as SHA-256 hashes
for rate limiting. You can disable submissions entirely with
.B \-\-no\-upload
or
.BR GETSCRIPT_UPLOAD=0 .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error (network failure, transcript not available).
.TP
.B 2
Usage error (invalid input, missing arguments).
.TP
.B 130
User interrupt (Ctrl-C or fzf cancellation).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Fetch an Apple Podcasts transcript
getscript "https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-daily/id1200361736?i=1000753754819"

# Fetch from a bare Apple episode ID
getscript 1000753754819

# Raw TTML XML (Apple only)
getscript 1000753754819 \-\-ttml

# Search Apple Podcasts interactively
getscript \-\-search "artificial intelligence" \-\-apple

# Fetch a YouTube transcript
getscript "https://youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ"

# JSON output piped to jq
getscript VIDEO_ID \-\-json | jq '.segments[].text'

# Markdown with timestamps
getscript VIDEO_ID \-\-markdown \-\-timestamps > notes.md

# Search YouTube interactively
getscript \-\-search "machine learning"

# Fetch without contributing to shared library
getscript EPISODE_ID \-\-no\-upload

# Generate shell completions
getscript \-\-completions zsh >> ~/.zshrc

# Read URL/ID from stdin
echo "dQw4w9WgXcQ" | getscript \-

# Batch process a list of IDs
cat urls.txt | xargs \-n1 getscript \-\-no\-upload \-\-quiet

# Disable upload via environment variable
GETSCRIPT_UPLOAD=0 getscript VIDEO_ID

# Silent file output for scripting
getscript VIDEO_ID \-\-quiet \-\-no\-upload \-o out.txt
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/getscript/config.json
Configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/getscript/device.json
Anonymous device ID for shared library submissions.
.TP
.I ~/.cache/getscript/apple_token
Cached Apple bearer token (macOS only).
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Python 3.10+. Apple Podcasts transcripts require macOS 15.5+ with Xcode
CLI tools.
.PP
Install via PyPI:
.B pip install getscript
.br
Install via Homebrew:
.B brew install outerbanks73/tap/getscript
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jq (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR youtube-dl (1)
.PP
.UR https://voxlytranscribes.com/docs/getscript
Technical documentation
.UE
.PP
.UR https://github.com/outerbanks73/cli-tools
Source code
.UE
.PP
.UR https://github.com/outerbanks73/cli-tools/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md
Changelog
.UE
.SH AUTHORS
Voxly contributors.
